How do you optimise DevOps for innovation at scale?

This was the overarching question at this year’s IDC DevOps Conference. Optimising DevOps goes beyond trialling DevOps in a pocket of your organisation. Optimisation is about scaling DevOps principles and new ways of working to accelerate application delivery.

IDC predict that by 2021, 80% of European organisations will have adopted DevOps, but only 10% will be excelling performance and delivery cycles. This statistic draws parallels with McKinsey, who state that the success rates for transformation initiatives currently sits at 4-11%, with this jumping to an unexceptional 26% within high tech industries.

One of the biggest culprits of failure is siloes. Siloed teams, siloed thinking and siloed execution. Everyone has a role to play in a transformation, and the sooner you facilitate a wholistic team ownership, the greater your chances of success.

There is also the problem of changing for change sake.

Much in the same way Nokia fell victim to technological advancement and rapid market change by focusing too greater on reorganising structure to make way for agile, businesses need to focus on process and engineering capabilities so their entire team retain the technologically savviness and strategic integrative to set priorities and resolve conflicts arising in the new matrix.

As touched on in Sarndeep Nijjar’s talk Digital Transformation – Disruption that Drives Meaningful Enterprise Change, “Engineering allows you to move fast, and without it no matter how big your ideas and vision is for products, you will never be able to achieve the release cadence you need….we have seen so many projects missed deadlines, because senior developers where not involved in the ideation stage, to give the project a level of realism.”

Accelerating application delivery is about more than wanting to become a software business. Success comes from raising the profile of five key competencies to move you into a new way of working that provides continuous and sustainable change.

We are already starting to see organisations invest their efforts into environment and tool standardisation. Jen Thomson believes this trend will continue long into 2021, alongside an increasing adoption of a community-driven approach that will share and grow open source repositories.

Data lake programmes are also becoming increasingly popular, but not always to their potential. Often, collaboration between business SME, data architects and development teams to define how data should be represented and consumed is missing. This has a knock-on effect to how this data is fed back to the rest of the organisation to leverage. In the words of Sarndeep, “we have seen many projects suffer not because they lacked the engineering to deliver but because they didn’t have the data, they needed in the correct structure to serve to their end users.”

ECS itself works across a multitude of industries, which gives us a pretty unique lens. We operate in the financial, energy, telecommunications, pharmaceutical, insurance and retail verticals, witnessing failure first-hand, but also success.

This experience led to the creation and launch of the Digital Engine Room – a unique space in your organisation with the sole purpose to raise the profile and effectiveness of each competency that directly affects the acceleration of organisational change.

After years of working with some of the largest enterprises globally, we have found the most effective way to do real transformative change is by merging together business stakeholders and development teams and implementing a high-tech creative culture where new ideas are explored, refined and translated into real digital software.

We hope to be able to share the full recording of Sarndeep’s talk as soon as possible. In the meantime, you can download a copy of Sarndeep’s presentation here. We have also created a infographic summary of Jen Thomson’s opening keynote which we hope provides insight into industry changes, trends and predictions.